# Basic Primitive Types

In JavaScript there are six Data Types that are [primitives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive). As with all development there's a lot to be learnt but we'll focus on the simple parts of the most used primitive data types, these being:

- Number
- String
- Boolean

## Number

A number is exactly what you understand it to be and can have the same actions performed on them. So you can:

```
// Add them
const twoPlusTwo = 2 + 2

//subtract them:
const threeMinus1 = 3 - 1

// multiply
const fiveFives = 5 * 5

// and divide
const 8by2 = 8 / 2
```

### What are those double slashes for?

These are used when the developer wants to leave a comment to help explain what's happening. They tell the JavaScript Engine (how the code is understood by the computer) to ignore this line.

### What does const mean?

You've probably noticed I've used the word `const` a lot in the examples above. This is one of the ways JavaScript defines a variable. A variable is a way for a program to remember something and refer to it later on. So if we wanted to use one of the variables in our application we could refer to it by that name and get access to the value its saving:

```
const a = 2
const b = 3
const six = a * b
```

There are two different ways to declare a variable in JavaScript:

- `const` - use this by default. This means the value within here will never change. If you want this to change you should use...
- `let` - this saves the value as a variable but allows you to change it at any point later. For example:

```
let a = 1;
let b = 2;
let c = 1 * 2;
// at this point c equal 2

// you can change this by referring to the variable name again and giving it a new value
c = 5
// c is now equal to 5
```

## Strings

Strings are how text is represented in JavaScript. You tell the JavaScript Engine that a value is a string by surrounding it in quotes. For example:

```
const name = 'Adie'
```

## Boolean

A Boolean is a computing term for something that has just two options, true or false. In JavaScript these are defined using these exact keywords:

```
const adieEatsTooManySweets = true;
const kidsLovesSchool = false;
```